Grid or graph based path planning methods such as NF1, A*, or
Dijkstra's algorithm are constrained to movement choices along graph
edges or discrete transitions between grid cells. They thus produce
paths that are not optimal for real-world execution. Frequently, a
smoothing step is performed after planning to alleviate this problem,
which yields unsatisfactory results as it only locally addresses a
symptom rooted in the discrete nature of the path choices during
planning.

The E* algorithm resolves this problem. We formulate navigation
functions (i.e. functions with a unique global minimum at the goal
configuration, to be used in conjunction with gradient descent to
drive an agent from any start to the goal) as a distance measure in
the continuous domain, of which E* computes samples. These are located
at the nodes of a graph which is embedded in the configuration space
of the robot. E* can be likened to graph search: It starts at the goal
nodes and propagates through adjacent edges, assigning monotonically
increasing values to nodes. However, the continuous formulation allows
us to interpolate between edges, which resolves the issue with
movement choices at a more fundamental level than methods that employ
post-planning path smoothing.

Papers describing E* have been published in international conferences
and a PhD thesis. The current implementation has been used to prove
the algorithm and evaluate its effectiveness.

Distributing the Open Source C++ implementation of E* through
SourceForge, along with a C wrapper for compatibility with legacy
control architectures, allows roboticists to easily take advantage of
our research. It is also of potential interest for other projects
which need to estimate non-trivial distance functions, such as route
planners not constrained to roads, or agents in animations and
games. We rely on the Boost Graph Library for data representation. E*
specific class hierarchies are layered on top of it, up to a
high-level Facade for straightforward access.
